contracts/README.md, before:

# MSQ Pay Contracts

[English](README.md) | [한국어](README.ko.md)

Smart contract package for the MSQ Pay payment system.

## Supported Networks

| Network | Chain ID | Type | RPC Fallback |
|---------|----------|------|--------------|
| Hardhat Local | 31337 | Development | localhost:8545 |
| Polygon Amoy | 80002 | Testnet | rpc-amoy.polygon.technology |
| Polygon | 137 | Mainnet | polygon-rpc.com |
| Ethereum Sepolia | 11155111 | Testnet | rpc.sepolia.org |
| Ethereum | 1 | Mainnet | cloudflare-eth.com |
| BNB Testnet | 97 | Testnet | data-seed-prebsc-1-s1.binance.org |
| BNB | 56 | Mainnet | bsc-dataseed.binance.org |

## Installation

```bash
cd contracts
pnpm install
```

## Environment Setup

1. Copy `.env.example` to create `.env` file:

```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

2. Set required values in `.env` file:

```bash
# Private key for deployment (Never commit real keys!)
PRIVATE_KEY=0x...

# Network configuration (Set according to deployment chain)
RPC_URL=https://rpc-amoy.polygon.technology
CHAIN_ID=80002

# Block Explorer API Key (Etherscan API v2)
# Single API key supports 60+ chains
ETHERSCAN_API_KEY=your-etherscan-api-key
```

## Compilation

```bash
pnpm compile
```

## Testing

```bash
# Run all tests
pnpm test

# Coverage report
pnpm test:coverage
```

## Deployment

### Local Development Environment

```bash
# Start Hardhat node (separate terminal)
npx hardhat node

# Local deployment
npx hardhat ignition deploy ./ignition/modules/PaymentGateway.ts --network localhost
```

### Network Deployment

Set `RPC_URL` and `CHAIN_ID` in `.env` file, then deploy:

```bash
npx hardhat ignition deploy ./ignition/modules/PaymentGateway.ts --network default
```

### Deploy with Existing Forwarder

To deploy PaymentGateway with an existing ERC2771Forwarder (e.g., from external relayer service):

```bash
# 1. Remove existing deployment artifacts (if redeploying)
rm -rf ignition/deployments/chain-{CHAIN_ID}

# 2. Create parameters file
mkdir -p ignition/parameters
cat > ignition/parameters/network.json << EOF
{
  "PaymentGateway": {
    "forwarderAddress": "0xYourExistingForwarderAddress"
  }
}
EOF

# 3. Deploy with parameters
npx hardhat ignition deploy ignition/modules/PaymentGateway.ts \
  --network default \
  --parameters ignition/parameters/network.json
```

**Example for Polygon Amoy with msq-relayer-service Forwarder:**

```bash
# Set environment
export PRIVATE_KEY="0x..."
export RPC_URL="https://rpc-amoy.polygon.technology"
export CHAIN_ID=80002

# Create parameters for Amoy
cat > ignition/parameters/amoy.json << EOF
{
  "PaymentGateway": {
    "forwarderAddress": "0xF034a404241707F347A952Cd4095f9035AF877Bf"
  }
}
EOF

# Deploy
npx hardhat ignition deploy ignition/modules/PaymentGateway.ts \
  --network default \
  --parameters ignition/parameters/amoy.json
```

### After Deployment

1. **Update database**: Update `gateway_address` and `forwarder_address` in `docker/init.sql`
2. **Update docker-compose**: Update `GATEWAY_ADDRESS` and `FORWARDER_ADDRESS` in docker-compose files
3. **Verify contract** (optional): `npx hardhat ignition verify chain-{CHAIN_ID}`

## Contract Verification

Verify source code on Block Explorer after deployment:

```bash
npx hardhat ignition verify chain-{CHAIN_ID}
```

## Deployed Contracts

### Polygon Amoy (Testnet)

| Contract | Address |
|----------|---------|
| PaymentGatewayProxy | `0xF3a0661743cD5cF970144a4Ed022E27c05b33BB5` |
| PaymentGatewayV1 | `0xf5131C2c7140919042f811080D2Be9E8da37F9ED` |
| ERC2771Forwarder | `0xF034a404241707F347A952Cd4095f9035AF877Bf` |
| SUT Token | `0xE4C687167705Abf55d709395f92e254bdF5825a2` |

> [View on Polygonscan](https://amoy.polygonscan.com/address/0xF3a0661743cD5cF970144a4Ed022E27c05b33BB5)

## Deployment Results

Deployed contract addresses are saved in `ignition/deployments/chain-{CHAIN_ID}/deployed_addresses.json`.

## Deployment Checklist

### Before Testnet Deployment

- [ ] Set `PRIVATE_KEY` in `.env` file
- [ ] Ensure deployment wallet has test tokens (use Faucet)
  - Polygon Amoy: [Polygon Faucet](https://faucet.polygon.technology/)
  - Sepolia: [Sepolia Faucet](https://sepoliafaucet.com/)
  - BNB Testnet: [BNB Faucet](https://testnet.bnbchain.org/faucet-smart)
- [ ] Set Explorer API key for contract verification

### Before Mainnet Deployment

- [ ] Complete sufficient testing on Testnet
- [ ] Ensure deployment wallet has sufficient native tokens
- [ ] Complete security audit (recommended)
- [ ] Set up multi-sig wallet (recommended)

## Contract Structure

```
src/
├── PaymentGatewayV1.sol      # Payment Gateway (Upgradeable)
├── PaymentGatewayProxy.sol   # Proxy Contract
└── mocks/
    └── MockERC20.sol         # ERC20 Token for Testing
```

## License

MIT License

Commit message:

docs: clarify docker-compose update instructions for contract addresses
- Specify that GATEWAY_ADDRESS and FORWARDER_ADDRESS should be removed from server service
- Clarify that other services (e.g., simple-relayer) should be updated as needed
- Address Gemini Code Assist review feedback

contracts/README.md, after:

# MSQ Pay Contracts

[English](README.md) | [한국어](README.ko.md)

Smart contract package for the MSQ Pay payment system.

## Supported Networks

| Network | Chain ID | Type | RPC Fallback |
|---------|----------|------|--------------|
| Hardhat Local | 31337 | Development | localhost:8545 |
| Polygon Amoy | 80002 | Testnet | rpc-amoy.polygon.technology |
| Polygon | 137 | Mainnet | polygon-rpc.com |
| Ethereum Sepolia | 11155111 | Testnet | rpc.sepolia.org |
| Ethereum | 1 | Mainnet | cloudflare-eth.com |
| BNB Testnet | 97 | Testnet | data-seed-prebsc-1-s1.binance.org |
| BNB | 56 | Mainnet | bsc-dataseed.binance.org |

## Installation

```bash
cd contracts
pnpm install
```

## Environment Setup

1. Copy `.env.example` to create `.env` file:

```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

2. Set required values in `.env` file:

```bash
# Private key for deployment (Never commit real keys!)
PRIVATE_KEY=0x...

# Network configuration (Set according to deployment chain)
RPC_URL=https://rpc-amoy.polygon.technology
CHAIN_ID=80002

# Block Explorer API Key (Etherscan API v2)
# Single API key supports 60+ chains
ETHERSCAN_API_KEY=your-etherscan-api-key
```

## Compilation

```bash
pnpm compile
```

## Testing

```bash
# Run all tests
pnpm test

# Coverage report
pnpm test:coverage
```

## Deployment

### Local Development Environment

```bash
# Start Hardhat node (separate terminal)
npx hardhat node

# Local deployment
npx hardhat ignition deploy ./ignition/modules/PaymentGateway.ts --network localhost
```

### Network Deployment

Set `RPC_URL` and `CHAIN_ID` in `.env` file, then deploy:

```bash
npx hardhat ignition deploy ./ignition/modules/PaymentGateway.ts --network default
```

### Deploy with Existing Forwarder

To deploy PaymentGateway with an existing ERC2771Forwarder (e.g., from external relayer service):

```bash
# 1. Remove existing deployment artifacts (if redeploying)
rm -rf ignition/deployments/chain-{CHAIN_ID}

# 2. Create parameters file
mkdir -p ignition/parameters
cat > ignition/parameters/network.json << EOF
{
  "PaymentGateway": {
    "forwarderAddress": "0xYourExistingForwarderAddress"
  }
}
EOF

# 3. Deploy with parameters
npx hardhat ignition deploy ignition/modules/PaymentGateway.ts \
  --network default \
  --parameters ignition/parameters/network.json
```

**Example for Polygon Amoy with msq-relayer-service Forwarder:**

```bash
# Set environment
export PRIVATE_KEY="0x..."
export RPC_URL="https://rpc-amoy.polygon.technology"
export CHAIN_ID=80002

# Create parameters for Amoy
cat > ignition/parameters/amoy.json << EOF
{
  "PaymentGateway": {
    "forwarderAddress": "0xF034a404241707F347A952Cd4095f9035AF877Bf"
  }
}
EOF

# Deploy
npx hardhat ignition deploy ignition/modules/PaymentGateway.ts \
  --network default \
  --parameters ignition/parameters/amoy.json
```

### After Deployment

1. **Update database**: Update `gateway_address` and `forwarder_address` in `docker/init.sql`
2. **Update docker-compose**: Remove `GATEWAY_ADDRESS` and `FORWARDER_ADDRESS` from the `server` service, and update them in other services (e.g., `simple-relayer`) if needed
3. **Verify contract** (optional): `npx hardhat ignition verify chain-{CHAIN_ID}`

## Contract Verification

Verify source code on Block Explorer after deployment:

```bash
npx hardhat ignition verify chain-{CHAIN_ID}
```

## Deployed Contracts

### Polygon Amoy (Testnet)

| Contract | Address |
|----------|---------|
| PaymentGatewayProxy | `0xF3a0661743cD5cF970144a4Ed022E27c05b33BB5` |
| PaymentGatewayV1 | `0xf5131C2c7140919042f811080D2Be9E8da37F9ED` |
| ERC2771Forwarder | `0xF034a404241707F347A952Cd4095f9035AF877Bf` |
| SUT Token | `0xE4C687167705Abf55d709395f92e254bdF5825a2` |

> [View on Polygonscan](https://amoy.polygonscan.com/address/0xF3a0661743cD5cF970144a4Ed022E27c05b33BB5)

## Deployment Results

Deployed contract addresses are saved in `ignition/deployments/chain-{CHAIN_ID}/deployed_addresses.json`.

## Deployment Checklist

### Before Testnet Deployment

- [ ] Set `PRIVATE_KEY` in `.env` file
- [ ] Ensure deployment wallet has test tokens (use Faucet)
  - Polygon Amoy: [Polygon Faucet](https://faucet.polygon.technology/)
  - Sepolia: [Sepolia Faucet](https://sepoliafaucet.com/)
  - BNB Testnet: [BNB Faucet](https://testnet.bnbchain.org/faucet-smart)
- [ ] Set Explorer API key for contract verification

### Before Mainnet Deployment

- [ ] Complete sufficient testing on Testnet
- [ ] Ensure deployment wallet has sufficient native tokens
- [ ] Complete security audit (recommended)
- [ ] Set up multi-sig wallet (recommended)

## Contract Structure

```
src/
├── PaymentGatewayV1.sol      # Payment Gateway (Upgradeable)
├── PaymentGatewayProxy.sol   # Proxy Contract
└── mocks/
    └── MockERC20.sol         # ERC20 Token for Testing
```

## License

MIT License
